Update QML documentation in preparation for V2 pipeline rollout (#1470)
PennyLaneAI/qml: documentation/contributing.md

# Contributing to Demos in QML

This document provides comprehensive guidelines for contributing to the QML demonstrations repository. It covers the entire process, from setting up your environment and creating new demos to managing dependencies and building your contributions for review.

## Table of Contents

*   [Getting Started](#getting-started)
*   [Creating and Adding a New Demo](#creating-and-adding-a-new-demo)
    *   [General Guidelines](#general-guidelines)
    *   [Image Guidelines](#image-guidelines)
    *   [Metadata Guidelines](#metadata-guidelines)
    *   [Tutorial Content Guidelines](#tutorial-content-guidelines)
*   [Dependency Management](#dependency-management)
*   [Building and Testing Locally](#building-and-testing-locally)
*   [Support](#support)
*   [License](#license)

---

## Getting Started

To contribute to the QML demonstrations, begin by forking and cloning the QML repository. All contributions should be made by opening a pull request against the `master` branch.

> 

Author: Great question, and I am open to feedback. Just a few clarifying questions if you don't mind.

**My reasoning:** I did not include information about contributing internally, as this Readme is technically public-facing and is open-source.

Currently, an "external" contributor is required to create a fork as they don't have sufficient access/permissions.

---

You are correct, that is not the case @alvaro-at-xanadu, I assumed that this information would be internal-only. 

**Follow up:**
- Do we want to assume that external users will have access someday?
- Do we want to show **external** users **internal** documentation?
  - If so, does that mean we should have an "internal" vs. "external" version of these docs?
  
I am building the tool, but as long as you all are okay with exposing that info we can rewrite it 🙂. But I would like to confirm with you all before-hand.

CC @justinpickering, @CatalinaAlbornoz, @doctorperceptron and @josh146.

> 

Reviewer: I personally prefer to make this external-facing and if there's someone internal wanting to write a demo we can clarify via Slack or some other internal medium what changes for internal authors.

> 

Reviewer 2: +1 to keeping it external-facing!

Ensure you have the necessary tools installed, including Python and the QML CLI tool. Refer to the [QML CLI README for installation instructions](/documentation/qml-cli.md#installation). Once installed, you can create a new demo using the [`qml new` command](#creating-and-adding-a-new-demo).

## Creating and Adding a New Demo

To create a new demonstration, use the QML CLI tool's [`new` command](/documentation/qml-cli.md#new). This command will guide you through the initial setup.

> 

Author: I think maybe adding a place to show you how to do it manually might help?

### General Guidelines

*   **Format:** Demos are written as executable Python scripts.
    *   Packages listed in `dependencies/requirements-core.in` are available to all demos by default. Additional dependencies can be specified in a `requirements.in` file within the demo's directory. See [Dependency Management](#dependency-management) for more details.
    *   Matplotlib plots will be automatically rendered and displayed on the QML website.
    *   **Execution Time:** Aim to keep the execution time of your script under 10 minutes.

> *   **Jupyter Notebook Conversion:** If you prefer writing your demo in a Jupyter notebook, you can convert it to the required executable Python format by following [these steps](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/qml/tree/master/notebook_converter).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*   **Jupyter Notebook Conversion:** If you prefer writing your demo in a Jupyter notebook, you can convert it to the required executable Python format by following the [QML Notebook to Demo Converter](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/qml/tree/master/notebook_converter).
```

*   **LaTeX Macros:** Avoid using LaTeX macros within your comments. Even if they appear to work in development, they will not be displayed correctly once the demo is published.
*   **Author Information:** Include the author's information in the `.metadata.json` file. This can be either the author's PennyLane profile `username` or their `name`. Providing the PennyLane profile username allows author details to be sourced directly from that profile, and the demo will then appear as a contribution on the author's profile.
*   **End Marker:** Always conclude your demo script with the following line:

    ```python
    ##############################################################################
    # About the author
    # ----------------
    #
    ```

*   **Code Formatting:** Before submitting, run your script through the [Black Python formatter](https://github.com/psf/black):

    ```bash
    pip install black
    black -l 100 demo_new.py

>     ```

Author: This is old, I will update. I believe you would specify the directory/file

### Image Guidelines

You may add figures within ReST comments using the following syntax:

```python
##############################################################################
#.. figure:: ../_static/demonstration_assets/<demo name>/image.png
#    :align: center

> #    :width: 90%

Author: Hi @alvaro-at-xanadu — you are more familiar with the syntax than I. Would you mind adding it as a suggestion?

```

Here, `<demo name>` refers to a subdirectory within `_static/demonstration_assets/` named after your demo.

> 

Author: Manually

<details>
  <summary><b>Follow these standards when adding images:</b></summary>

  ### File Size

  *   Always aim to keep image file sizes in kilobytes (KB).
  *   Always compress images to the best possible size where quality remains acceptable.

  ### Formats

  *   Use `.png` for all static images (decorative, descriptive, logos, etc.).
  *   Use `.gif` for animated images.

  ### Dimensions

  *   To maintain quality and performance, every image should be twice (2X) its visible dimension size on the web page, and at a minimum of `150 ppi/dpi` (preferably `300 ppi/dpi`).
</details>
<br>

### Metadata Guidelines

Every demo requires an accompanying `metadata.json` file located in its directory. This JSON file stores crucial information about the demo. Refer to [this example](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/qml/blob/master/demonstrations/tutorial_here_comes_the_sun.metadata.json) for the required fields:

> *   **Filename:** Ensure the file is named `<name_of_your_tutorial>.metadata.json`.

Author: Done

*   **Author ID:** The "id" of the author should match the one chosen when creating the bio.
*   **Dates:** Leave publication and modification dates empty if you do not know them.
*   **Categories:** Choose relevant categories for your demo, such as: `"Getting Started"`, `"Optimization"`, `"Quantum Machine Learning"`, `"Quantum Chemistry"`, `"Devices and Performance"`, `"Quantum Computing"`, `"Quantum Hardware"`, `"Algorithms"`, or `"How-to"`. You may select multiple categories.
*   **`previewImages`:** Simply modify the final part of the image file names to match your demo's name. These two images will be provided to you once the review process begins. After receiving them, you must upload them to the address indicated in the metadata.

> *   **`relatedContent`:** This field refers to demos related to yours. You will need to include the corresponding `id` and set the `weight` to `1.0`.

Author: I have added a json blob with examples

*   **Privacy:** By submitting your demo, you consent to our [Privacy Policy](https://pennylane.ai/privacy/).

## Dependency Management

Demo dependencies are automatically installed by the `qml` tool during demo execution. For detailed information on dependency specifications, refer to [dependencies/README.md](./dependencies/README.md). A `requirements.txt` file will be created in the demo directory after a successful build.

## Building and Testing Locally

To build and execute demos locally, use the following `qml` command:

```bash
qml build --execute <demo_name(s)>
```

To build demos using development dependencies:

```bash
qml build --execute --dev <demo_name>
```

For more details on building options, run `qml build --help`.

You can view the built demo in your browser by navigating to the URL: `_build/html/demos/<name of your tutorial>.html`. This requires you to first build the HTML output.

## Support

*   **Source Code:** https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/QML
*   **Issue Tracker:** https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/QML/issues

If you encounter any issues, please report them on our GitHub issue tracker.

> We are committed to providing a friendly, safe, and welcoming environment for all contributors. Please read and respect the [Code of Conduct](.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Reviewer 2: (.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) link is broken for me.

## License

The materials and demos in this repository are **free** and **open source**, released under the Apache License, Version 2.0.

> The file `custom_directives.py` is available under the BSD 3-Clause License with Copyright (c) 2017, Pytorch contributors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please note, the file `custom_directives.py` is available under the BSD 3-Clause License, with copyright © 2017, PyTorch contributors.
```
